# Wordle-Solver-Entropy
Wordle-Solver-Entropy is a simple and efficient solver that uses information theory to play the popular New York Times Wordle game optimally. The solver first calculates the number of candidate words still possible out of the remaining words and picks the guess that is expected to provide the most additional information and thus narrow the sample space the most. When tested on the original wordle dataset of 2315 words (labeled short_words.txt) and given the fixed first guess as "slate", the solver guesses the word in **3.4903** guesses on average, within around **2%** of the known minimum of 3.4212 expected guesses required. When there are over 1500 candidate words remaining, the solver chooses not to run the entropy calculations on all the words, instead using Monte-Carlo random sampling to increase efficiency while still maintaining accuracy. Thanks to additional optimizations such as precomputing comparison matrices (the green/yellow/gray tile matchings between any two words) and parallelization for running overall testing, the robot finishes solving all 2315 words in 0.3 seconds, with a **100% win rate** (under or equal to 6 guesses). 

Recently, wordle has updated their word list to include more words, but the actual current up-to-date word list is not readily findable online. However, there is a much larger word list of 14,000+ words (titled words.txt) that encompasses all the possible guesses a user can take. When tested on all words of this larger list of 14855 words, the solver finishes all the games in 27.1 seconds, guessing the word in 4.24 guesses on average and achieving a win rate of 98.9%. The 169 words it fails to guess in 6 or less guesses include words with duplicate or uncommon letters such as waqfs and vives. The practical performance can likely be optimized even more if each word was given a weight of how common it is, as these obscure words are less likely to be a wordle solution. 

This code can be copied onto your local computer using git clone in a terminal or in VS Code. Feel free to use or modify this code as you wish as well, and any comments or optimization suggestions are highly welcomed! 

[Wordle]([url](https://www.nytimes.com/games/wordle/index.html)) is a word game where the user tries to guess a 5-letter word and is given feedback after each incorrect guess. See [here ]([url](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wordle)) for a more detailed description of Wordle's rules. 
